Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome
User Experience Technology Manager,
John Galenzi.
Well, good morning.
Welcome to session 130.
It's the last day at WWDC.
It's been a great week, I think,
and certainly from the
feedback we've gotten from you.
This is a really exciting session.
This is a session about usage
of Aqua icons and the design
philosophy behind them.
And document icons and application
icons that communicate purpose
and function have always been
really important on the Macintosh.
And that's particularly true on Mac OS X,
where the quality of
icons is extremely high.
And as you'll see in this session,
the incredible attention
to detail is unprecedented.
And if you think about the good, better,
best Aqua adoption scenarios that
I outlined in session 111 on Wednesday,
quality icons was not one of the things
that you leave to the last minute.
It wasn't one of the things
that you sort of leave,
you know, if we're going to do a really
fantastic product on Mac OS X.
Delivering a quality icon for your
application and for your documents
was down there in the good scenario.
So for every application on the platform,
you should be delivering a great icon
for your application and documents.
So to give you the scoop on this,
I'd like to introduce Imran Chaudhri,
who's from the interface
design team at Apple.
And Imran is really the guy who's driven
the vision at Apple around Mac OS X and
the icon story that we have to tell.
So this guy is incredibly creative.
He's a fantastic designer
and really is an icon,
get it, for the group.
So come on up on stage, Imran.
Look forward to hearing
what you have to say.
Welcome.
Thanks for coming out today.
How are you guys doing?
Right?
It's the last day of the session.
Lunch is about 90 minutes away.
Like John mentioned,
Aqua is fairly new in many aspects,
especially with icons.
Icons are a very important
part of your application.
They are the first thing
your users will see,
and also they sometimes serve as the
face of your application as well.
With the many advancements to
Mac OS X has come a new icon direction.
Many of you out here today are
already developing applications,
and you might be familiar with some of
the new things that we've been doing.
I know some of you are
just getting started.
Hopefully all of you will find
this somewhat interesting.
So I'm going to start talking about
our new icon direction in two terms.
The first being philosophy
and the second being design.
In Philosophy, we'll be looking at
Photo Illustrative Icons.
These are
Icons that sort of present a realism.
It's what we've adopted
as our house style.
It's how we fashion
our icons within Aqua.
In emotive icons,
we'll be looking at icons that express
Something beyond the symbol,
the basic symbol.
Icons for the first time
can express feeling.
In genres, we'll be looking at a
new concept for Mac OS X,
and that is the ability to classify
your applications and organize them.
It's a really,
really simple way of really identifying
what type of application something is.
And in families and icon types,
we'll be looking at the different
types of standard icons and
the families that make them up.
In designing icons,
concept and communication are two very,
very important fundamental elements
in getting your message across.
There are many different
types of materials that you
can use to render your icons.
We'll be looking at different rendering
styles and how we use them and
what's appropriate in the Aqua sense.
Perspective and shadows have
a lot of meaning in Aqua.
We'll look at what that means.
Tools.
Once you've got all your icons designed,
how do you get them into a format
the application can understand?
We'll be looking at that.
So this first image is an image of
the Aqua icon in its 128 by 128 glory.
Where we started out from in Mac OS was
a 16 by 16 and a 32 by 32 pixel icon.
In Mac OS X we introduced the 128 by 128
icon and this was done for two reasons.
The first being the ability to show a
really lush preview in the final image.
The second which is the more
interesting reason and that's to
be able to dynamically scale an
icon in the dock and in the finder.
Today I'm happy to announce that we're
going to be shipping the 768 by 768 icon.
You can buy this at the Apple Store now.
Okay, that's a bit of a joke.
We brought this up because we wanted
to examine this icon in great detail.
This icon, which is the preview icon,
it's an icon for an application
that allows you to view images.
This really embodies...
Every aspect an icon in Aqua can achieve.
It's really what started it all for us.
It's got 32-bit vivid color,
lines and curves are realized
through anti-aliasing.
You can get brilliant curves this way.
Shadows give a sense of depth
and translucency gives a sense of
realism to objects like the glass
in the loop in the corner there.
The photo illustrative
style that we've got,
as you see, is a combination of stylized
illustration and image.
The intent is to
Deliver an object that
is somewhat believable.
Unlike cartoon type objects
or icons of the past,
photo-realism or photo-illustrative
as we tend to call it within the team,
tends to communicate in a different way.
It sort of lays down the foundation
of something that we call emotive.
The emotive nature of this icon
can be described as... well,
I guess if you were to
just look at this thing,
the pictures are arranged
like they would be on a table.
They are like they're being used,
like the viewing... the viewing...
You've been using the loop to look at the
images and it really sets the scene of
someone who's actually using this thing.
It communicates the activity
of looking at pictures.
It's really, really effective.
It's what makes this icon emotive.
It's also what makes
this icon not emotive.
This icon is a really,
really universally understood symbol.
I'm sure many of you have seen it, well,
the men of you have at least seen it on
the bathrooms all across your travels.
This icon is a really,
really basic symbol.
By no means is it emotive.
What I mean by that is that in the
context of it being on the bathroom door,
it communicates men's bathroom.
You take it out of its context,
it no longer communicates men's bathroom.
Being flashed here on
the screen right now,
it's just saying "man."
That's all it's communicating.
For it to be an Aqua icon,
it would have to be emotive.
It would have to communicate that it's
a men's bathroom outside of its context,
no matter where it would be.
And so if you were to
re-render this thing,
If you were to re-render this thing,
it might look something like this.
Which... kind of looks
like me a little bit.
I think the trajectory
is a little bit off,
but...
But the head's close.
The emotive nature of
this icon is so clear.
You can totally tell it's a man
and it's someone relieving himself.
It's the emotive nature of the icon.
So that's what emotive icons really are.
They're icons that tell a story.
They're an extension of the basic,
basic symbol.
And they're generally
universally understood.
So, what we've been talking about so far,
the photo illustrative
quality of our icons,
Emotive nature of the icons
are all building blocks to
something that we call genres.
And genres, like I mentioned earlier on,
are a means to classify applications.
This slide here represents a bunch of
applications that are somewhat mixed,
but looking at them you can tell that
there's some common themes on there.
You can see some have vivid colors,
some are muted, some are angled,
some are straight.
Um...
There's obviously two
different things going on.
If you reshuffle them,
you'll see that immediately
there's a sense of order.
The top row is one particular genre
and the second is another one.
And you can tell this because the ones
in the top are obviously full of color.
They have a consistent angle to them,
while the ones on the bottom
are muted and they're generally
straight on from a perspective.
This sort of thing really makes
sense in the context of the doc,
where you can find a whole
bunch of applications,
as many of you have been finding out.
Here we've got a slide that
has the icons shuffled.
If we reorder them simply,
you'll see that it's really,
really clear to pick out two
types of things going on,
two genres, as we like to call them.
That's kind of like the dynamics,
the mechanics, rather,
of how these things work,
how the genres work.
How we employ them on X is
through something that we call
the user application and the
utility application genres.
These are the two genres that
we have defined for Aqua.
In the user application genre,
we build upon everything that
we've known about the Mac OS.
So here is an image of the Mac OS,
original Mac OS application,
not the original original,
for you purists out there,
but something that pretty much is close
to the original application diamond.
And to the left of it
is the new translation,
the Aqua translation.
The original Macintosh diamond was
a one-bit symbol that was really,
really heavy in meaning,
yet light in feeling.
And when the Mac made the transition
from black and white to color,
all that was simply done was
the icons were sort of injected
with color in a really dumb way,
like they would in a coloring book.
The translation on the right hand
side is paying homage to the diamond.
You can see a subtle reference,
a similarity to the diamond and the
tool being the pencil and the pen.
The translation is now achieved
in more of a photo illustrative,
emotive, Aqua fashion.
So, things that define the
user application genre,
applications that define the user
application genre are apps that
tend to create or view media.
And these are apps like TextEdit,
a word processor, or Preview,
an image viewer.
And they're frequently used by your
novice user on a day-to-day basis,
kind of like Mail.
It's a typical app.
So these applications are common
in the day to day productivity and
recreation of most of your users.
Visually, the genre is defined by
a desk-like perspective.
We'll talk about that in a second.
They're designed to be approachable,
friendly, if you will,
because they are typically
used by your novice user,
and for that reason they're inviting.
They're made inviting through
the use of vibrant color,
and they communicate in a emotive
nature by the relationship
to the media and the tool.
We'll look at the media and
the tool in detail in a moment,
but media can be anything from paper,
film, to CDs, et cetera, and the tool,
which in this case, as you can see,
is the pen,
can be anything that supports or
makes that idea actually more solid.
[Transcript missing]
So here's a real technical
drawing of the perspective.
If you can imagine,
If there's an icon sitting on
the table and your viewpoint
is the camera at the top,
it might look something like this.
So looking from the camera,
through the camera, you'll see this.
And this is a crude drawing
of the text edit icon.
If we were to replace and
swap in the icon in line,
it would look something like that.
So that's an illustration that hopefully
gets across the point of the particular
perspective for the user application.
Here's a view of all perspectives,
or the entire perspective.
On the bottom again we've got the table,
the camera on the outside.
Looking through the
camera on the top left,
you'll see the icon,
and on the top right,
it's fully rendered.
So, some example applications of
the user application genre.
The first is, um,
TextEdit,
we've looked at that earlier on.
But something really important
to note about it is that the
relationship between the media
and the tool really speaks to the
Activity of writing.
You'll see that the
paper has been fashioned.
It has a small letter
that's been written on.
And the tool is sort
of a very special tool,
like a writing pen.
And it really communicates.
This is something you can write with.
[Transcript missing]
Sketch, PDF viewer, the glasses reinforce
the action of reading.
Preview and Stickies Stickies
does not have a tool.
Sometimes the media plays
such an important role,
it doesn't actually
need a supportive tool.
Remember that the role of
the tool is supportive,
it's to reinforce the action.
In the case of Stickies,
it's such a well-known media,
it doesn't actually
need a supportive tool.
In the case of Sherlock,
where we sort of push our own
The same thing is clear.
There's a relationship between
the tool and the media.
The media is a little bit pushed,
but that's because of the
well-established brand as Sherlock.
A lot of you out there have really,
really strong brands and you
might be asking yourself,
how do I communicate a tool
when my brand is so strong?
What we've done is we've gone in
and looked at in a simple exercise,
an internal exercise,
what it would mean to use your
brand as the tool to reinforce
the concept of the media.
Remember the user application is one
that creates media or views media.
So the media plays a very,
very important role.
These are some sample applications.
By no means are they shipping apps.
It's something that
we've done internally.
But you can see the examples
on screen right now.
Quicken,
Palm Desktop and Sound Jam all
communicate what the app can do
by using the brand as the tool.
So, the relationship of the media
and the tool is so tight,
and we thought we'd try and
play with it for a little bit.
Two well-known icons that we've
got are the preview and mail icon.
What would happen if we were to
mix up the media and the tool?
So if we were to take the ink stamp icon,
the mail icon,
the hello from Cupertino portion,
and the loop from preview,
we might have something
that looks like this.
And what does that communicate?
It could be an application
that lets you send postcards,
right?
But if we were to flip that around,
you might have an app that is for
stamp collectors or something.
[Transcript missing]
A group of apps that process
the media that is normally
created by the user apps.
This could be something
like Stuff Expander,
perhaps.
Normally, these apps maintain and monitor
attributes of the system.
Things like terminal
process view come to mind.
They're used infrequently
by your novice user.
And they work in the background,
they work in the back end.
Because they're used
infrequently by the novice user,
they're probably technically complex.
The visual cues that define these
apps are a shelf level perspective,
different from that of the user app,
a limited use of color,
very muted use of color
to convey a serious tone.
Let's take a look at some of those.
Oops,
we'll look at the perspective first.
The perspective is straight,
it's dead on,
like we were looking at in the user apps
where we've got a desk level perspective.
Here we just have a
straight on perspective.
The image at the bottom
The camera is straight on, one to one.
At the top left you'll see what it looks
like if you look through the camera.
And then at the top right,
what it would look like if it
was rendered in that perspective.
Here's a group of applications
that represent selections from
the utility application genre.
You can see that they're all
straight for the most part.
They have muted color.
They're very serious.
They communicate one simple idea.
They're not layered objects
like the user applications where
you've got a tool and a media.
It's just one simple idea.
A note about the perspectives.
For the most part,
things are straight on,
but as you'll see in
the case of the printer,
the print center icon in the top
left for you and the bottom right,
There's sort of a raised
frontal perspective,
so if I go back to...
[Transcript missing]
So you have a little bit more
of an interesting composition so
you can communicate that element
in a much more successful way.
So up until this point we've been looking
at applications and what it means to
be emotive and photo illustrative.
There are other aspects to icons on X.
Those can be illustrated when we
start looking at the families.
Families are, again,
they're a way to relate objects
to the application icon.
It's actually an old concept,
but we've just sort of carried
it forward in Mac OS X.
So here in this illustration you'll
see that the document icons at the
bottom relate to the preview icon.
They're branded, if you will.
They all communicate some
relationship to the preview icon.
The next image, the iTunes family.
You'll see that the MusicNote brand
is carried off into every aspect.
There's a preferences icon at the bottom,
a playlist.
and a sound document.
But it all communicates iTunes.
The relationship is clear.
So, with the document icon,
like we did with the application icon,
the application diamond,
we built upon what was already there.
But this time, gone are the black lines,
gone are the restrictions
of 45 and 90 degrees,
and in comes the subtleties
and the dimension of the
dog ear created by shadow.
So, with the document icon,
like we did with the application icon,
the application diamond,
we built upon what was already there.
But this time, gone are the black lines,
gone are the restrictions
of 45 and 90 degrees,
and in comes the subtleties
and the dimension of the
dog ear created by shadow.
So the relationship to the application
and the document is made through using
the media on the document itself.
So you'll note the document icon
has the media from the preview,
but the tool has been removed.
And that's to communicate a sense
of media that's been created.
The tool again reinforces
the idea of the application,
not the media.
So therefore,
it makes sense to just remove the tool.
there.
[Transcript missing]
We call that labeling.
The image up here on screen communicates
a preview icon that is a kind of JPEG.
So the difference that you'll find is,
This information,
the supplemental information,
is integrated within the document.
It's not appended to the
document as a placard.
It's really just sort of
integrated in a clean manner,
and it doesn't clutter
up the document at all.
In the case of the preferences icon,
we've got two elements that
describe the preference.
On the right hand side,
we've got the branded element of iTunes.
And on the left hand side,
we have the element that
describes it as a preference file.
And this relationship is made
clear by this next slide.
You'll see that the music notes
from the iTunes application icon
are branded on the right hand side,
while the light switch draws a
reference to the system preferences
icon on the left hand side.
So branding is a very,
very important function of
a lot of the document icons.
Looking at device icons in 10,
you note that the items on the
top row are of a pluggable nature.
These are drives that are external
but are sort of hot pluggable drives,
things that can come and go,
physical drives, if you will.
They're branded in a way that they
indicate the bus that they're mounted on.
So we've got the FireWire drive,
the USB drive, and the SCSI drive.
And drives below that are drives
that are internal in a sense that
you can't really see them or it's
not that important to see them.
We've got with the blue globe iDisk,
next to it is the internal hard disk.
[Transcript missing]
A note about the internal hard disk.
Because what we're trying to do is
communicate physicality to these objects,
It really communicates
the internal hard disk.
It really gives you a sense of
what it looks like from the inside.
Although people may never see it,
it's probably a good idea to let
them know what it really looks like.
With devices,
it's about the physical nature,
it is what it is,
versus what it should be or how it
feels with the application icons.
Looking at removable media,
the focus shifts from the
device to the media itself.
So you don't represent the
zip drive or the CD-ROM drive.
It's really more of an intimate
relationship about the media itself.
And here we've got a selection
of different types of media.
Floppy disks, Zip disk, Jazz disk, DVD,
and another CD, it's a compact disk,
and a PC card.
You'll note though that the perspective
is different from that of the
"So hard, pluggable, or internal devices
in that it's straight.
And that's because that's what your
relationship is with that type of media.
You normally hold ZIP cartridges
in your hand and CDs in your hand.
So, looking at toolbars,
this is an illustration
of the Finder toolbar.
Something that's important to note
is that unlike the other icons that
we've been talking about this far,
especially the user applications,
which are layered objects upon objects,
items in the toolbar are
designed to be singular objects.
So they communicate the
action with one icon,
one object.
I'll get to the
contradiction in a minute.
The computer communicates what it is.
The home is a single object.
The heart is a single
object for favorites.
And the three objects that represent
applications are fashioned in a way
to really communicate a single object.
So they really form an A.
So it's read first as a single object,
then in closer detail, close examination,
you'll see that it's made up of three.
And also,
there's a singular color usage for
all these objects on the toolbar.
The computer is predominantly dark blue.
[Transcript missing]
The perspective for items on the
toolbar are similar to that of items
in the utility application genre.
They are dead on.
And that can be illustrated in
another crude drawing like this.
You'll see, again,
if we were to look through the
camera like we have been at the
bottom and look in the top left,
you would see something like
the home in that perspective.
And then on the top right,
what it would look like if it was
rendered out in that perspective.
There's quite a bit of function
that comes to designing a toolbar.
The singular item icon,
the attention to form,
and the singular color usage all plays
a great sort of functional purpose in
that it really makes it easy to pick out
objects on the toolbar at a quick scan.
In this illustration,
you'll note that objects can be
broken down into really easily
understandable primitives.
In the computer, we've just got a square.
In the home, there's a triangle that
sits on top of a square.
In favorites,
there's just a simple heart,
and the apps can be
communicated as a triangle.
It really makes it easy to
quickly scan through and pick
something out based on its shape.
And then that's reinforcement.
It's reinforced by the
other elements as well.
So, in practice,
[Transcript missing]
Elements on the toolbar within an
application should be consistent
and use common elements.
We say that because using consistent
elements through color or repurposing
elements allows for each application
to develop a sense of character.
In this case,
you'll see that the Mail toolbar
reinforces the language that was
started or originated by the application
icon by using stamps and the color of
blue is carried all across the toolbar.
Objects on the right hand side
are a little bit different because
they have different functions,
yet they still relate
visually in terms of color.
And a little stamp
element in the corner as
Materials are a really
new concept for Mac OS X.
We've never looked at materials.
What I mean by that is that
we've never really looked at
what it means to communicate,
say, the plasticity of the CD in iTunes
or any of the other details.
We study a lot of real world objects
when we go off and we render our objects.
And that's to fully
communicate the realism,
to
Reinforce the photo-illustrative
nature and to really
So there's really no question when you
come across these things what it is.
If we were to look at some of them,
the middle icon is an icon for Sketch.
You can see it has pieces of tape,
Scotch tape.
You can almost see the 3M logo in there.
The stickies
It really has a sense of the sticky
type of paper where there's glue on
the back and the way it's frayed up
on the top because it's only glued
on the top portion of the paper.
The glass loop in preview and the metal
brim around the Sherlock magnifying
glass really gives it a sense of weight.
You'll know how that
feels when you pick it up.
And the battery monitor,
which we call the AquaCell inside.
really communicates a sense of glass.
A note about transparency-- we tend to
use transparency in a meaningful way.
The only time we sort of
break away from that is in the
case of the battery monitor.
And that's because it
communicates a function.
The transparent battery allows you
to examine the level of your battery,
your battery level, any time you want.
So it's actually a functional
usage of transparency there.
I don't know if you can see,
there's some bubbles that are inside
the battery right now and they sort of
communicate the batteries in charge mode,
which is reinforced by that glyph on top.
So we study a lot of real world objects.
It's a bit of a quick
walkthrough on certain things,
but I guess the idea that we'd
like to get across is that
A lot of attention is paid to
items in the Aqua Icon family.
We spend a lot of time on these things
and we imagine that many of you will.
I've been told that a lot of you
have been asking about icons,
application icons,
and have been told that some of them
need work and some of them are really,
really good.
A lot of you out there are really
amazing at doing this sort of thing,
but some of you might need some help.
We have on site here,
I don't know if they're still here,
but they have been all week,
Icon Factory,
which Apple has invited to come
and consult with developers.
They do some amazing work.
You can always sort of
[Transcript missing]
So now that you've actually, say,
gone out and rendered these icons,
and you've got gorgeous resources,
how would you put them to use?
There's a number of ways that you
can get your icons into a format
that the application understands.
They need to be in a format called ICNS.
And there are a few tools that
convert resources into an ICNS format.
A few tools that we've got
listed here are Icon Composer.
That's our own tool.
Icon Builder is a tool by Icon Factory.
It works within Photoshop and only
works on Mac OS 9 at the moment,
or in Classic.
Iconata is a new tool by a
company called Fabricata.
Iconographer is by Emscape
Software also a fairly decent tool.
So once you get these
icons into an ICNS format,
the thing to do is to
have them point to the
The application through a plist.
You can do this in two forms.
The first is an Info.plist,
and that's for packaged
apps through app packaging.
And the second one is a plist resource,
and that's for single file applications.
You can get all the information
that you want on this sort of thing
through the developer website.
I'm fairly certain there's quite a
bit of detail that's gone into on
any sort of documentation about that.
That's what we've got for you today.
There's a few extra resources
that you can use here.
Thanks for listening.
I think we're going to do a
bit of Q&A since the nature of
this stuff is probably things
that you've got questions with.
Thank you.
Let's just go through some more,
a couple of last slides about where to
get some more information on this stuff.
And while that's happening,
if the members of the HI team
who are going to be on
stage for Q&A would come up.
So you can get a lot more information
about this material actually that was
talked about in this session in the
new version of the interface guidelines
that are available for download today.
Actually they went up
on Wednesday I believe.
And the URL for that is there.
As well as for general information about
creating a great citizen on Mac OS X,
a great citizen product on Mac OS X,
you can hit the general page which
is developer.available.com/ue.
And there's connections to or
links to a Carbon and Cocoa related
technical documentation on how
to create great dialogues and
toolbars and this sort of stuff.
There's a human interface design
discussion list which is listed up there.
And actually there's a single
URL at the end here that you're
going to be able to visit and get
links to all this information.
-
Just to go over the roadmap for those of
you who are watching this session on DVD,
clearly you're not doing that now,
but those, you know,
eventually you will be able to.
There's some other sessions listed
here that relate to providing a
really great user experience on X,
and you should take a look
at this material there.
And as well as these.
And of course,
my contact information is on the slide.